TESLA`S POINT OF MIND
Author: Velimir Abramović
Things were created rather in the minds of angels, than in Nature,
I.e. angels had all things clear in their minds and thoughts
before they got a real existence.
Words by Augustine Blessed cited by H.P. Blavatskaya
In her book “Secret doctrine”
“I will not work for the present no more, I am working for the future”- said Tesla to
journalists gathered in New York City more than seven decades ago. – “The future is
mine!” Inventor of alternating current, polyphase engines and generator, reversible
magnetic field, radio, teleautomatics, inventor, on whose patents energetics of XX
century is properly based, worked alone on explanation of cosmic processes during
decades, having a desire to combine material and spiritual theoretically like he did it
in his practical discoveries.
Mentioning of Nikola Tesla’s name now mainly connected with the so-called Tesla
coil, inductive engine and international unit symbol to measure the force of magnetic
field. Many facts of his life and his extraordinary creative gift are forgotten.
The most productive period of his creative work Tesla spent in USA. He had patented
more than 300 inventions in different countries. Many of them still were not repeated;
for example, receiver of radiant energy, medical apparatuses, as well.. We know
nothing definite about its principle of operation besides that may be it is the question
of transformer of energy produced by cosmic rays. In the period from 1899 until
1900, he devoted himself to the research of electromagnetic oscillations of very low
frequencies in the specially built laboratory in Colorado Springs. Two years later he
began to build a world relaying station on Long Island near New York and he didn’t
finish it. This experiment was financed by American steel magnate J.P. Morgan,
Tesla’s friend. After this project was closed in 1905, Tesla up to his death preferred
to work alone, far from people’s sight. This period was not without new discoveries.
Just at that time being a mature scientist he came to fundamental conclusions, which
should become a new milestone in future science? We know from history that when
scientific thought finds itself at crossroads, the scientists address to the past seeking
for support and inspiration. Let’s try to answer many important questions.
How Tesla came to his discoveries? These discoveries are: influence of super low-
frequency electromagnetic waves on biological systems, especially on the work of
cerebrum, coalescence of energy structures, the so called “fire balls” from inductive
field of primary and secondary electromagnetic coils, superconductivity of natural and
artificial mediums, the so called wireless energy transfer and so on.
What are the main axioms of Tesla’s cosmology? How do they follow from his
metaphysics? How did he apply them in his physical experiments? Why theorists and
empiricists of modern physics of time are so interested in reconstruction of Tesla’s
1
missing theory of physical reality and his view on electromagnetic phenomena? Why
Tesla didn’t formulate his scientific theory and didn’t publish it? Can Tesla’s sight on
ethic aspect of scientific discoveries help to ennoble modern natural science,
especially physics, which is in crisis of ideas now? What can we expect from studying
of Tesla’s conceptions in near future? Whether it will be an overestimate to say that
Tesla in 1900 grounded the possibility of global information-oriented society in his
famous project - World-wide system? Whether it is actually technical and
technological basis of that, we call now “New World order”? Shall we consider Tesla
to be a spiritual precursor of a new scientific and technological civilization named as
Tesliana? Technology of “time design” rules in Tesliana, where the time-shift or
rather asynchronicity of various levels of physical processes will be the only and
inexhaustible energy source.
Tesla’s research method
Let’s return to the middle XIX century, to the little village Smilyan in Lika, which was
Austrian-Hungarian province. In this village on July10, 1856 Milutin Tesla, Serbian
Orthodox priest, saw the birth of his forth child Nikola.
Tesla’s family didn’t allow him to study in Polytechnic Institute, especially father, who
required him to be a priest. Nikola felt a deep and insatiable vocation to be an
electrical engineer and he felt sick due to this disagreement. When crisis came and it
became evident that he can die, father finally agreed with desire of his son. Soon
Tesla recovered as if it was a miracle and was absorbed in inventive fantasy. After
mental efforts he began to suffer from a strange phenomenon. He saw clear visions
sometimes accompanied by strong light flash. It is the ability of people who have
parapsychological power - "In my boyhood I suffered from a peculiar affliction due to
the appearance of images, often accompanied by strong flashes of light, which
covered the sight of real objects and interfered with my thought and actions....When
a word was spoken to me the image of the object it designated would present itself
vividly to my vision and sometimes I was quite unable to distinguish whether what I
sow was tangible or not."
He also described his spontaneous mind traveling:"Then, instinctively, I commenced
making mind trips beyond the limits of the small world of which I had knowledge and I
saw new scenes. These were at first very blurred and indistinct, and would flit away
when I tried to concentrate my attention upon them but, by and by, I succeeded in
fixing them; they gained in strength and distinctness and finally assumed the
concreteness of real thing. I soon discovered that my best comfort was attained if I
simply went on in my vision further and further, getting new impressions all the time,
and so I began to travel - of course in my mind. Every night (and sometimes during
the day) when alone, I would start on my journeys, see new places, cities and
countries, live there, meet people and make friendships and acquaintances and,
however unbelievable, it is a fact that they were just as real and dear to me as those
in actual life and not one bit less intense in their manifestations. This I did constantly
until I was seventeen, when my thoughts turned seriously to invention."
Tesla was satisfied to notice that he could clearly visualize his discoveries, he even
didn’t need experiments, models and drawings. In such a way he developed his own
method to give material form to creative ideas. Tesla sharply distinguished ideas,
2
which were coming into his mind as visions and those, which appear due to analytical
mind clearance. Tesla explained: The moment when somebody designs an
imaginary device is connected with a problem of transfer from raw idea to the
practice. That’s why any discovery made this way has lack of details, and usually it is
inferior. Tesla used another method. He did not hurry up with empirical check. When
idea appeared, he immediately began to elaborate it in his imagination. He would
change its design, improving it and would “switch on” the device to begin its
operation in his head. For him it did not matter whether he tested his invention in the
laboratory or in his mind. He even had time to notice if something prevents his
invention to work properly… The same way he could develop a perfect idea without
any touch. Only then he would give a concrete look for this final product of his mind.
All his inventions were developed by this method with no exceptions during twenty
years… There is hardly any scientific discovery that can be foresaw only
mathematically, without visualization… Introduction of unfinished, crude ideas to the
practice is always a waste of energy and time.
Studying the mechanisms of his mental life, Tesla found that a number of visions
“from virtual reality” are always having certain connection with events of “true reality”.
Soon he got an ability to realize this causation. He was glad to understand that every
his thought is a result of influence of external impressions. He noted that not only
thoughts but actions also appear in the same way. Some time passed and it became
clear to him that he was only a kind of “automaton of cosmic forces” endowed with
abilities to move, responsible on irritation of sense organs and thoughts. Invention of
teleautomatic control was a result of this conclusion many years later. He understood
the laws of this control through firstly unclear feeling of external conditioning of his
own behavior.
Nikola Tesla used imagination as a psychological precursor of well-ordered
disclosure made by mathematical methods. We can say nothing of this kind about his
contemporary, inventor Thomas Edison, because having weak knowledge in
mathematics; he at first was guided by long and laborious experiments.
In his records, Tesla often speaks about his predisposition to the mental processes.
Principle of these processes corresponds to the same principles, which Nature
should follow. He consider this inborn gift to be given as a “diffused pressure”, which
calls a sense to make another invention, because the experiment of previous
researcher was short of something. Here he sees not only a source of invention in
general, but also some proof that the law of different reality affects the man. To be
short, Tesla considers creative imagination to be a threshold of conscious discovery
act.
According to his words, the certain conclusions were born in his mind spontaneously,
in the form of geometrical images. Then followed the understanding of principle of
discovery and its physical interpretation. Only then mathematical formalization took
place followed by finding of necessary technical properties of material essential for
continuous operation of constructed physical model. The work on inventions he
understood at first as a struggle for mental clarification, i.e. elimination of secondary
ideas and sensible details, which blur imaging principle and complicate the approach
to the real nature of relations between fundamental geometrical elements.
3
According to Tesla, process of understanding of principle shall be considered
finished and ready to apply, when the connection between geometrical objects was
stated. Thus, discovery appears in the moment when correspondence of elements
and their physical manifestations was defined, so we can find a physical law, which
rules in the real world, in the algorithm itself. For Tesla, an idea finds its manifestation
already in the act of creative striking. Only then, a choice of operating parameters of
specific device takes place, which follows from general understanding. This result
can be a design of inductive engine or model of rotating magnetic field. As he told, a
method of mental improvement was polished by him in a great extent, so he made
even very small corrections of his discovery in mind, without any physical check. It
can open a secret of his work, which has a great volume taking into consideration all
his scientific and technical innovation, and it is a remarkable fact.
Tesla also made a hypothesis on extraordinary effect of external irritant on human
thinking and memory. Referring on Rene Decart’s theory, he concluded that
subjective human work and human life as a whole has such feature as automatism,
which is stipulated, by space. According to Tesla’s evidence, creativity can be the
consequence of automatic operation of brain (appearance of unknown visual ideas),
that’s why he develops an additional supposition about reversible effect of brain
visual centers on retina. Here he sees a reason of appearance of his images, which
led to discoveries. Thus, though human brain processes information about external
irritants, it can create new images and relations between phenomena of real world
reflected in it and images of imaginary world.
And finally, it is Tesla’s opinion that thought, memory, motion are feedback
processes, that’s why we should mention that with attempt to understand his inborn
gift of invention, he also understood the role of cybernetics as reflection of cosmic
principles of material and informational organization.
Believing that the Universe is alive and people are “automates” in some extent,
acting according to Creator’s plans; Tesla made an original theory of memory. He
considered that human brain hasn’t ability to remember in the way that we consider it
to do (biochemical or rather biophysical way) and memory is only a reaction of
human brain on recurring external irritant. Really, it is unusual that Tesla, who had a
very good memory (he spoke seven or eight languages) and had ability for eidetic
imagination was sure that there is no human memory. It is more important that the
author of few hundreds of scientific discoveries didn’t consider his creativity to be his
own desert and surely stated the is only a conductor of ideas, which come from the
world of ideas to the world of people and practice. All this is not so contradictory if we
remember that he being a son of a priest answered to the question about his religion
that he believes in the only God, which has no description in any religion and his
religion is the closest one to Buddhism. Later Tesla himself became closer to
Buddhism, he even went in for yoga, watched after nutrition, meditated and the last
years before his death he lived as an ascetic in New York like Indian guru or
Orthodox saint.
Tesla was twelve when he could override his visions by act of will and change them
to other visions. However, as he noted, he couldn’t override light flashes. Usually
these flashes appeared in certain dangerous situations or when he was greatly
excited. He wrote: “In some certain moments I noticed that all air around me was full
4
of tongues of real flame. Intensity of these tongues grew after a number of years
instead of falling and reached maximum at the age of Twenty-five. Once I had a
feeling that my brain was enveloped in flames and a little Sun shines in my head”.
Tesla wrote when he was 65: “These light phenomena sometimes still appear,
especially when some new idea shows me unprecedented possibilities, but their
intensity is relatively weak”.
During a long time Tesla tried to solve the question of death and attentively looked
for any manifestations of death in real life. Tesla wrote: “Only once in my present
existing I experienced something that looked like supernatural. It happened during
my mother’s death. I was ill and exhausted with fever, and was lying in the bed.
Suddenly I thought that if my mother dies far from me, she possibly will give a sign.
Two or three months later I was in London with my now the late friend, English
scientist sir William Crookes, where there was a discussion about spiritism. I was
impressed by his case and remembered his work on “radiant matter”, which I read
when I was a student. Due to this work, I understood my vocation to be an
electrician. I thought that prerequisites for looking “beyond” were favorable since my
mother was a woman with extraordinary intuition. All night every fiber of my brain was
strained in expectation, but nothing happened until morning, and only when I felt
asleep or may be began to nod, I saw a cloud, which carried cherubic figures of
divine beauty. One of them looked on me with love, and little by little I recognized in it
my mother. The ghost was flying along the room slowly, and finally disappeared. I
abruptly woke up with the sound of indescribable pleasant voices. In this moment a
confidence, which cannot be described by any words, came over me: I knew that my
mother died. And it was true”.
The same day Tesla sent a letter to Crookes under the influence of this vision and
still being ill. These to scientists were in correspondence for many years, but Tesla’s
letters to Crookes disappeared together with Crookes’s archives in 1918. Crookes’s
huge scientific material contains numerous records of spiritistic seances held in
strictly scientific and experimental clue and many hundred of pictures with
materialized ghosts from different historical epochs. Tesla museum in Belgrade
keeps Crookes’s letter to Tesla of 1893, where Crookes thanked Tesla for a special
electromagnetic spiral coil sent to him. This spiral created field, which made contours
of ghosts clearer and at the same time it affects good on medium’s condition making
an experiment easier.
At the same time when Crookes began scientific studying of spiritistic phenomena in
London, Mendeleev began to do the same in Saint Petersburg in 70-s of XIX century.
Committee of specialists formed in Saint Petersburg after a short work and about ten
seances concluded that it is just a superstition. Since then in England and Russia
science is subdivided on secret, “factitious” including Tesla’s physics of ether and
clear, “real”, university science of commercial and even political direction, for
example, nuclear physics and theory of relativity.
Tesla as a physicist
In theoretical and experimental physics of XX century, we can mark three different
styles of thinking. Quantum mechanics as well as relativism (near-light speeds) and
traditionalism to which Tesla belonged (really he is not recognized scientist of the
5
future) tried to find truth, i.e. real nature of time, space and especially the essence of
motion.
Before we’ll go into Tesla’s metaphysics, namely into the world of fundamental
processes of his physics, let’s try to pinpoint the place, which Tesla ranks in the world
of modern scientific systems.
Plank constant, uncertainty relation by Heisenberg, Pauli principal and wave function
by Shredinger were the main theoretical instruments of quantum and mechanical
approach to the cosmic phenomena. The main goal of quantum mechanics, which is
to discover fundamental or elementary particle of matter, is still not realized. In spite
of great success in studying of process of chain reactions activation and physics of
atomic nucleus, processes of formation of nuclei of heavy elements from nuclei of
light elements, many things are still mysterious and they are beyond technical
control. Starting from tendency of general development, we can make a conclusion
that productive basis for notions of quantum-mechanical physics are exhausted. It
became evident that we should research such categories as time and space again, at
deeper level of realization, at ontological level to determine a true nature of physical
processes.
Special theory of relativity by Albert Einstein published in 1905 in German magazine
“Annalen der Physik” marked the second milestone in theoretical physics and used
four-dimensional space-time continuum by Minkovsky as a model of physical reality.
The third method to understand physical reality relates to Tesla’s ideas. Starting from
works by M. Faraday and D. Arago from the one hand and L. Galvani and A. Volta
from the other hand, Tesla could create his own original theory of world on the basis
of theory of acoustic resonators by Helmoholz and modified ether model by lord
Kelvin. This theory gave outstanding results in experiments. Initial axiom of his theory
was that universal energy of one physical system is based on the laws of resonance
of vibrations, on coincidence of oscillations of system’s parts. He considered that
theory of ether cannot be excluded from physics, because matter and space cannot
at all be completely and strictly separated.
This this simple and important aspect can be found in the letter of M. Faraday to R.
Tailor. It is Faraday's opinion about the nature of matter. In his letter to Richard Tailor
of June 25, 1844, M. Faraday wrote: So, matter anywhere is continuous... it is not
necessary to assume the difference between atoms of matter and some intermediate
space. The forces around centers provide these centers with properties of matter...
M. Faraday considered this aspect to make a conclusion for the nature of electric
conductivity and insulation. However, his point of view can be developed in
gravitational aspect also. Atom and space around of an atom is the same matter in
different states and the difference is the opposite directions of the time flow for "inner
cosmos" of matter and "spatial cosmos" between atoms.
It is Tesla’s opinion that electrified state is a fluid state based on the substance
having the properties of perception and elements of consciousness. In mathematics,
the scientist was the follower of realistic approach, holding the idea the properties of
mathematical and physical objects directly correspond. In experimental approach to
solve the problem Greek mechanican, Archimedes served as an example to him.
6
Archimedes stated that “time should be excluded from physics” as an excess
phenomenon. It should be noted that even in XIX century scientists H. Hertz and
D’Alamber tried to create theoretical physics without notion of force, but this attempt
failed. Russian scientist N.A. Kozyrev followed it, but his theory also didn’t achieve
the level of practical application. Problem of relation between force and time in
physics is still unsettled.
Tesla’s experiments mainly consists in ascertainment of deep joint properties of
physical systems, which should be brought to resonance. Evidence to it was his
complex electromagnetic oscillator, Wardenclyffe Tower (built at Long Island near
New York in 1901-1905). He could make simultaneous vibrations of ionosphere and
the globe by means of this tower.
In mathematics as well as in physics, Tesla was the follower of strict determinism. He
held sacred mathematics, but also considered that physical processes could be
described not only by mathematical method. It is Tesla’s opinion that control of
process shall be made by foresight; just the foresight provides control. Such position
is radically different from the theory of relativity. According to this theory, objective
(immediate) cognition is impossible and reality is recognized by mathematical
calculation.
Views of Tesla and Einstein on the problem of physical reality are fundamentally
different. According to Einstein, human experience is relative, fictitious and doesn’t
correspond to true physical reality. For Tesla physical reality is universal and
penetrates all levels of cosmic existence, i.e. nobody in any way can avoid certain
cognition of the truth. According to Einstein, Ether is not a real category, but exists as
a result of fallacious scientific opinions. For Tesla Ether is a joint undifferentiated
field, which consists of time, space, energy, and formation of matter is a result of
resonant processes in ether.
According to Einstein, Time is only a rank of phenomena, it is not a substantial
physical entity or even category and it is registered only by means of measurements
with reference to every system. For Tesla Time is a real algorithm of materialized
Mathematics. Matter is created from Ether due to time-resonance of physical
systems, and returns to Ether.A
ccording to Einstein, maximal speed is achieved in Vacuum, it is speed of light equal
to 300 000 km/sec. For Tesla speed of electromagnetic waves is not limited, and
experiments and calculations were made and showed that transfer of waves and
energy at any distance is possible in principle and speed of mechanical and electrical
waves penetrating the Earth highly exceeds speed of light in vacuum.
Speaking to his friends, Tesla often refuted some of Einstein’s statements, especially
those, which were related with curvature of space. He considered that it breaks the
law of action and counteraction and if roundness of space is formed due to the huge
gravitational fields, than it should become straight due to the counteraction.
Einstein was a pure theorist and Tesla was mainly an experimenter. There are no
information about contacts and talks between these two scientists. Nevertheless,
Einstein congratulated Tesla with his 75 anniversary. He underlined Tesla’s most
7
important merit in science, multiphase system of generators and alternating current
motors, which is to all appearances one of his least important discoveries.
Tesla believed: “We shall have no need to transmit power at all. Ere many
generations pass, our machinery will be driven by a power obtainable at any point of
the universe... Throughout space there is energy...”
Tesla’s views on new world order
There is no doubt that Tesla had a great feeling of uniformity of terrestrial nature and
cosmic processes. He brought the essence of his “World system” announced in 1900
to 12 positions, which reflect the very essence of technical and technological network
of modern world telecommunications. This system is also a technological basis to
establish global informational society. Tendency of this society to the universal
unification manifests in many things.
Tesla’s “World order” was constructed starting from principles of his own inventions.
Let’s enumerate some of them. These are Tesla’s transformer motors, i.e. device for
creation of electrovibrations with specific properties; step-up transformer specially
designed to excite the Earth (this device with its electrical transmission means the
same as a telescope in astronomy). Then, Tesla’s wireless system including certain
quantity of devices, which is now considered to be an untouched method to transmit
electrical current without wires; a device for individualization of signal, which in
comparison with a primitive method to match signal means the same as advanced
language in comparison with inarticulate mumbling. Due to this device, it is possible
to transmit secret signal both in passive and in active form, because they do not jam
other transmissions and cannot be jammed them. Any transmission is unique in its
rhythm and has individual features; actually, it is an unlimited quantity of stations and
instruments, which can act on one or two frequencies and at the same time they
would not call any mutual jamming. One more invention is wave processes in Earth’s
ionosphere; in popular explanation this discovery means that field of the Earth reacts
on electrical vibrations of given frequency in the same way as a tuning fork resonates
with a certain length of wave. These electrical vibrations can have a strong influence
on the field of the Earth. Such resonant effect can be used by different ways, and first
to change universal energy system, which is far from to be perfect and didn’t use up
all its natural abilities.
Tesla defines the goals of “Worldwide system” in such a way that it becomes clear:
Establishment of dense communicational network of all kinds and levels should serve
to humanize scientific technology. In this sense in the very beginning of XX century
he was a prophet of XXI century, since real metaphysical problems began to
penetrate theoretical physics only now together with the problems of cosmogony,
origin of the Universe, time and space. Therefore, even in far 1900 Tesla considered
that the following things would be necessary (they are already realized now):
1. Establishment of connection between existing telegraph stations or centers all
over the world;
2. Organizing of secret state telegraph service without a possibility of jamming (it
was not realized due to the fact that inventions by Markoni were used instead of
8
Tesla’s patents on radio transmission. Markoni’s inventions required a separate
frequency for every synchronous transmission);
3. Establishment of connection between existing telephone centers or stations on
the Earth;
4. United diffusion of common gazette news by means of telegraph and telephone;
5. Organizing of service with principles of “Worldwide system” to transmit private
information (it was realized by the worldwide computer web, Internet);
6. Establishment of interconnection of all telegraph systems in the world;
7. Uniform timing mark by means of clock, which mark seconds with an astronomic
accuracy;
8. Transmission of signs, words, sounds and so on as well as typewritten and hand-
written texts (it is an exact description of telex);
9. Creation of service to record music;
10. Organizing of worldwide service for needs of mercantile marine, which should
help in navigation, in compassless voyages? It will help to determine location and
speed, to prevent collisions and accidents and so on;
11. Introduction of worldwide printing system;
12. Reproduction of photos and all kinds of drawings or hand-written texts with a
possibility to send them over the world.
Though development of modern science and technology mainly confirmed Tesla’s
oracular ideas, it didn’t match with them in fundamental sense, namely all forethought
ideas Tesla wanted to realize by means of transmission through the Earth, but not
from surrounding orbits. Due to the same reasons, which made him to stand up
against using of atomic energy dangerous for people because of their ignorance of
real structure of matter, Tesla considered that any infringement of cosmic space,
magnetic field of the Earth is an infringement of harmony inherent to natural laws. In
addition, it is a consequence of negative influence of people’s free will, which
becomes destructive in absence of ethical component in science. Free will can be
creative only with kindness, which accompanies to the higher understanding and
conscious selection of positive intentions. He considered that humankind living on the
Earth should understand al kinds of natural alliance with the planet otherwise people
will be deprived of it.
In 1892-3 in London Tesla read his famous lectures in Royal scientific society of
Great Britain. Together with above mentioned experiments he demonstrated many
others, for example, lighting of lamps by wireless transmission of energy. Really, he
only placed a vacuum neon tube to the field of transformer and the lamp lighted. Due
to these wonderful lectures (“Light and other high frequency phenomena”), Tesla
9
gained a good reputation and got many friends among scientists, William Crookes,
Sir Oliver Lodge and J.J. Thompson - lord Kelvin.
When returned to USA in 1893 was absorbed in the problems of radio techniques,
telecontrol and wireless transmission of energy at big distances without losses. He
made successful experiments with direct electromagnetic field of the Earth and
wireless transmission of energy at Colorado Springs. Though his journal of this
period of work kept safe and was published, he didn’t advertise his most important
scientific results. However, all achieved brought him to an idea of universal system of
wireless transmission of energy and information. Planetary transmission should be
based on such extraordinary inventions as Tesla’s resonance transformer without an
iron core and Tesla’s Magnifying transformer. Tesla expected a lot from extending
transformer. It was a particular transformer made for exiting of the Earth. By means
of this transformer he made very power electromagnetic discharge at Colorado
Springs. This discharge exceeded atmospheric lighting and Tesla got electricity,
which made white-hot more then two hundred lamps placed at miles around the
laboratory. For Tesla it was an irrefutable proof that his concept of wireless
transmission of energy (action in distance) was true.
After experiments at Colorado Springs in June 1900, he returned to New York he
prepared the first universal system of wireless transmission, Wardenclyffe Tower,
which he successfully tested three years later. Technical specifications of Tesla’s
transmitting station now are still unknown, and we cannot state with certainty, what
was its real destination…
After unusual night of July15, 1903 when he fired the sky not only above New York
but above all vast area of Atlantic Ocean, in 1905 Tesla suddenly left his laboratory
without a clear reason and left all things untouched. As we know, he never crossed
the threshold of Wardenclyffe, never visited it and never appeared on this territory. It
was very strange, he didn’t take any calculation, drawing or document, none paper.
Last time suppositions that Tesla was the man who called a strong and strange by its
consequences explosion in Siberia in the region of Podkamennaya Tunguska in
1908! It was considered that this explosion could call a meteorite, but there was not
still found not the faintest fragment of it. It is also true that Wardenclyffe Tower was
good in technical sense and Tesla passed energy through the earth and could
accumulate and discharge simultaneously a huge quantity of energy at ant place of
the planet. It fully matched the results of his work of many years standing on studying
of Earth’s properties as a medium for propagation of electromagnetic waves.
THE MISSING THEORY
Tesla didn’t give us his own physical theory but with numerous experiments, he
created a basis for new, resonance understanding of electromagnetism. He
considered that world is a uniform continuous electromagnetic medium and matter is
one of manifestation of organized electromagnetic oscillations described by
mathematical algorithm. He considered that resonance law is the most general
natural law, which eliminates time and distance, and that all relations between
phenomena are established only by mean of various simple and complex
10
resonances, i.e. coordinated vibrations of physical systems, which have almost
electromagnetic nature.
Finally, instead of Newton’s integrals, Leibniz’s differentials and Maxwell’s theory of
field lying in his calculations Tesla used simple mathematics of Ancient Greek
mechanicians, at first Archimedes, making an analogy between mechanics and
electromagnetism. It is not possible to fully evaluate the significance of such method
of thinking, which directly points out the necessity of more full physical interpretation
of elementary mathematical notions.
Obviously, studying of Tesla’s heritage is not related only with history of physics. We
shouldn’t look for technological aspects only; its essence is in miraculous human
creativity in science.
Tesla’s scientific way needs understanding and following
We need analysis of Tesla’s evidences relating with creativity lying in the base of
new physical and technical processes discovered by him. It possibly leads to opening
of new way of cognition. It is important to understand an original scientific and
research method of Tesla and non-developed cosmic principles (relation), which are
realized, with the world of ideas. Tesla could create visual images competitive with
images really perceived by organs of vision. He as if changes the usual direction of
nervous impulse on the opposite direction, from brain to retina, eliminated external
image and substituted it with eidetic one. Tesla sent his impulses like from “inside”.
He called it mental laboratory. In addition, it was his main method of experimenting.
He had an ability to transfer mathematical, abstract notions into inside visible images,
give them geometrical interpretation, and than transfer them into the form that could
be physically realized, form of working models for realization in device.
He “made corrections” and adjusted a device for operation in his mind. When later
this device was made of wire or another material, it always worked. As Tesla said,
there was not a case when such invention didn’t correspond to nature, i.e. didn’t work
as a physical prototype.
His method was unique in comparison with other scientific prophecies. Michael
Faraday, for example, like Albert Einstein felt a kinesthetic premonition in the
moment of striking (it was pressure and motion in peritoneum region), he had some
kind of mental stress in the moment when an idea appeared. Dmitry Mendeleev
dreamed of periodic table in three dimensions colored with bright almost fiery red
colors like it is in all prophetic dreams. However, it happens very rare, with few
people and at certain moments. In addition, Tesla was in this condition all his life, has
been training during decades to maintain his spiritual and creative activity.
Tesla was a man, whose main philosophy and axiomatic didn’t belong to the modern
world. We can attribute him to the epoch before Socrates, ancient philosophy. It was
not an accident that he was born on Balkan Peninsula. Antique civilization appeared
in the old days in southern part of this peninsula. Probably, the reason is different
geomagnetic informational field, algorithm, which is general to evolution of neural
structures of Pythagoras, Plato, Zenon and Tesla.
11
Perception of Tesla’s physics requires quite different understanding of mathematics,
in some extent it is sacral in the spirit of Pythagoras. Pythagoras considered that
numbers and subjects are really interrelated. They correspond to each other in some
properties due to informational and mathematical aspects of matter existence as one
of manifestations of Divine Logos. Even less attentive researcher can immediately
notice that there are no infinitesimal or differentials in Tesla’s works. Tesla told about
James Maxwell, creator of theoretical electromagnetism with understanding. He told
that his elegant differential equations are the poetry. One could find Maxwell’s works
in Tesla’s library; these works were published when Tesla was twenty and he was a
student in Graatz. There is no another reason, which allows to explain, why Tesla
didn’t use them except one, very serious and deep: he discovered more simple and
more effective way and more felicitous physical interpretation of mathematical
notions. By means of these notions he foretold course and results of experiment. It is
evident that he was a man of such strength and astuteness that he could keep away
from conclusions of science, which was modern to him, its system of notions and
mathematical apparatus, which were far from perfection. It is not occasional that he
didn’t uphold his diploma. It was an indication of spiritual independence for him, but
not idleness or revolt as it can be some times.
His method of work could turn him to the absolutely different direction but it didn’t
happen. It proved that he could control the essence of his psychic visions and other
conscious or unconscious manifestations that is the basis of creation. In the moment
when he felt effects of impulses came from outside, he could override them, control
and analyze. He could do an impossible thing. By means of exercises, which he
developed himself, he got up to the level of man, who does not depend on impulses
provided by external world, and at first on his own inner psychic states. Essence of
his genius was in the fact that things understood by him and appeared in his
subconsciousness under influence of external field was nothing but a picture of
cosmic processes or the same natural laws. Because of it, he was distinctly different
from other people.
He said about rotation of magnetic field, with which the rotor of an engine began to
rotate under the influence of changes taken place in the external field: “Now I know,
how Cosmos works”.
This is the source of his theory on people as automates of cosmic forces. If we add
Tesla’s practically discovered axiom, that energy of system is derived from
environment, than we will find the reason of his conviction that entire Cosmos acts on
the principle of vibration and resonance. Finally, if we agree with the fact that all
energy of system appears under the impact of external induction, than it will be easy
to fancy Tesla’s cosmological model as a series of circuits of magnetic fields, which
rotate concentrically. Really, the Galaxy rotates, Solar system rotates around the
center of the Galaxy, the Earth rotates around the Sun, and molecules, atoms and
electrons rotate … All this is nothing but a range of rotating magnetic fields, which
can be described by the only one law, the same law that was responsible for starting
Tesla’s of inductive motor.
An open question is about Tesla’s real understanding of time and space categories.
We can say with certainty that in his research of how low frequency electromagnetic
waves are transmitted through the Earth Tesla didn’t face with the problem of
12
conjugacy of force and space as, for example, general theory of relativity. This theory
has some complexities in physical explanation of differential equations, which
describe the properties of curved space under the influence of gravitational forces of
different power. According to this theory, the constantly increasing attraction force
can influence time itself returning events back and violating the principle of causality.
Rene Decart in creation of his coordinate system used the same geometrical notion
to picture abscissa and ordinate. They are two straight lines interminable in their
lengths, which he interpreted as time and space as if there is no difference between
them. Is it possible? It is hardly possible. You know, space and time are different
physical categories and we hadn’t understood their nature enough. Besides,
abscissa and ordinate are divided by an angle, which does not have a special
physical interpretation. That’s why picturing physical phenomena in so geometrical
way, we have a risk of not taking into consideration the criteria of reality in check of
mathematical hypotheses.
There is no doubt that Tesla by means of his physical research discovered a
fundamental physical law, which is not clear yet, and applied it so easily and with a
such astuteness, that a dilettante as well as a specialist could similarly understand
that he spoke about exact knowledge. But now it is hard to imagine, what were these
usual mathematical operations of division and multiplication, natural algorithm or
square root taken separately, which are significant in Tesla’s experimental works.
Physical explanation of mathematical methods, especially univocal, is situated on the
boundary, from where we can see the field of transcendental mathematics. However,
it is evident that if all physical reality can be reduced to the mutual relation of
electromagnetic fields, then mathematics is a theory, which can express the essence
of these connections most effectively.
If electromagnetic oscillations correspond to the mental plan discovery made by
Tesla at Colorado Springs is still proved experimentally now), then it means that
mental plan itself should have the same nature and follow resonance law.
A conclusion arises that numbers are some “programs” of organization. Tesla’s
research, as it were, prove the verity of cognition theory by Plato. In his theory, Plato
stated that mathematics is a link between world of ideas and world of material
phenomena. To be more precise, mathematical algorithms and mathematical logic is
properly a method to realize ideas. Finally, all old innermost legends teach that
matter is only a concentrated light, and it is Tesla’s all- penetrating cosmic
substance, “luminoferous ether”.
Warships as time machines
There is a story, book and two movies describing an event, when in 1943 American
navy made an unusual experiment to make one of the warships invisible. It was
necessary to make ship create a strong field around itself using power magnetic
generators. This field should be able to change the direction of light beams as well as
to grade the radiation from radar sets and thereby hide its location. It took place as
recently as six months after Tesla’s death and disappearance of important scientific
documents and apparatuses from his room. The event took place in Philadelphia
seaport. When generators were engaged exceedingly, something unexpected
13
happened. The whole range of strong electromagnetic fields changed local time-
space coordinates and “Eldridge DE-173” cruiser disappeared for some time. Then
the cruiser appeared for few seconds in another place, i.e. in one of the biggest sea
base at Norfolk, in the port at south-east Virginia at Atlantic coast, which is 350 km
far from Philadelphia. The strangest things happened to the crew. One half of sailors
disappeared forever, some of them went crazy or got an ability to disappear and
appear again by their own will. Part of the screw who survived, stated that they “have
changed the world” and saw or even spoke to nonearthy beings. A thick greenish fog
preceded to the disappearance of the ship. This fog covered the hull with starting of
strong electromagnetic generators for producing of intensive concentrated
electromagnetic beams.
Three ships took part in this experiment. The above mentioned cruiser was in the
middle, shell of other two ships served as a mirror. Actually, the case in the point is
open “lasers”, which do not need vacuum. Beams of these lasers can be transferred
at any distance and in any medium. Tesla produced such lasers in his New York
laboratory even in XIX century. He illumined the room without any lamps, just calling
the luminescence of air.
Let’s return to the significance of Tesla’s experiments in Colorado Springs in 1899-
1900 and see, what are the real results of his work there? When making experiments
with ultra low and ultra high frequencies of electromagnetic waves, he obviously was
successful to determine the frequency and type of modulations, which is provided by
fields of fine body of living people as well as dead ones (numerous articles are
devoted to it, but these articles are lacking of theory and contain inexact
suppositions). Most likely, he could create a field using ultra high frequency. This field
corresponded to resonance frequencies of disincarnate soul (soul, which already has
no connection with the body) and thus he became proficient in visualization
techniques of the so-called astral level of being for biological organisms. Calculations
in Tesla’s records could seem to be insignificant for modern specialist since they are
very simple and can be understood without additional explanations. Only mind, which
has similar perceptive ability, can understand them.
Secret of “fireballs”
Tesla could reproduce complex energy structures in laboratory conditions. He called
the “fireballs”. Russian academician Peter Leonidovich Kapiza also studied them, but
he couldn’t reproduce them in dirigible kind without Tesla’s resonance transformer.
Nowadays physicists (Corum brothers in America) reproduce some of Tesla’s
experiments with a certain success. They could receive “fireballs” of a very short
standing and only three millimeters in diameter. Tesla produced ball lightning” of
football ball size, kept them in hands, put them to the box and covered it with a lid,
then he took them from the box. These ball lightning were almost stable structures,
which could be kept for minutes. Certainly, Tesla knew much more about this
phenomenon than modern science; he knew the secret of cold plasma fusion in free
space.
Thus, Tesla penetrated to the field, which was unexplored before, i.e. the time
engineering technologies. He also emphasized that his electromagnetic waves were
different from Hertz’s waves; i.e. the length of wave transmitted by him is equal to the
14
distance on which this wave is transmitted. In other words, it is equal to the distance
between sending object and receiving object. Hertz measures and space measures
are changing in opposite directions: one Hertz is taken as corresponding to the wave
length of approximately 300 000 km, 2 Hz – 150 000 km, 3 Hz - 100 000 km etc.,
which means that real length in space is decreasing with number of Hertzs which are
increasing.... That is why Tesla did not count in Hz-s...(technically, one meter of wire
gives one Hz, two meters of wire two Hz and so on. Obviously, Hz’s measures are
not adjusted to technical properties of electromagnetic tools.
In 1932 N. Tesla wrote: “I have showed that universal medium is a gaseous body.
Only longitudinal impulses can propagate to this body. They create variable
compression and decompression like those, which are created by the sound waves
in air. Thus, the wireless transmitter does not create Hertz’s waves, which are a
myth, but it creates the sound waves in ether. The behavior of these waves looks like
the behavior of sound waves in air excluding the fact that the huge elasticity and very
small density of this medium makes their speed equal to the speed of light”. Besides,
there were not only circles of oscillator (a device, which took part in the transference)
in resonance, but the entire system was also in resonance with natural
electromagnetic waves of the corridor of their passing. It meant that an oscillator
starting transmitting almost intercepted ether in the space between transmitter and
receiver and there it created a distinctive field of standing waves. Thus, a waveguide
formed at first, which couldn’t transfer energy of its own. Then Tesla turned on a low-
frequency field and transmitted waves, which were the lower harmonic components
of the main field carrier, in the ratio of 1:4. In such a way he could transmit energy at
the desired distance and make strong continuous electromagnetic discharges in
certain zones while creating the wall from ionoplasma. Nothing could make a way
through such energy wall without decay on molecules or atoms.
Tesla as a clairvoyant
It is evident that Tesla knew the phenomenon that we can call parapsychology in the
lack of a better word. As we told above, a method he used to make his discoveries or
work in the laboratory has no analogues in the history of science. There are more
that 150 000 documents in Nikola Tesla museum in Belgrade, but he didn’t leave any
description of his scientific method, which is comparable only with states experienced
by yogis or with things known by saints. Now few people consider Tesla to be a
philosopher or spiritual man. They do not think he was a man who inspired physics,
technology and science. Finally, he founded a basis of a new millennium civilization
with all his life and work. Though now his influence on the modern tendencies in
science is minimal, his role heeds overestimation. Only the future will give a real
explanation of Tesla as a phenomenon, because he went far ahead and he stands
higher than the methods accepted nowadays.
A well-known Indian philosopher Vivekananda, on of the members of Ramakrishna
mission, who was sent to the West to find out a possibility to join all existing religions,
visited Tesla in his New York laboratory in 1906 and immediately sent a letter to his
Indian colleague Alasingh. He rapturously described his meeting with Tesla: “This
man is different from other western people. He showed his experiments with
electricity. His attitude to electricity looks like an attitude to a living being. He speaks
with it and gives orders to it. I speak about the highest degree of spiritual person. It is
15
no doubt that he has a spirituality of the highest level and can call all our gods. In his
electrical multicolored lights, I saw all our gods: Vishnu, Shiva… and I felt the
presence of Brahma himself”.
physics of time according to Tesla
Resonance is simultaneity, and if we change the periods of oscillations of electrical
contour, then geometrical picture of magnetic field distribution will change and
generator is set in motion only under the influence of temporary factor. Motion is a
result of asynchronism. It proves the fact that it is possible to obtain the change in
speed of engine and thereby its mass without an additional impulse, i.e. without an
additional force. Tesla’s reversible magnetic field can be a proof of this fact, isn’t it?
Tesla wrote from Colorado Springs to his New York friend Johnson that he found a
thought in “scribble” of high-frequency electromagnetic discharge and soon Johnson
would be able to read his poetry personally to Homer, whereas Tesla would discuss
his discoveries with Archimedes. The same way we can find a detailed description of
“green” electromagnetic waves in his research journal. These waves looked like a
fog, which appeared when the warship in Philadelphia disappeared. When Tesla
returned to Colorado Springs, he told journalists that he made a connection with
extraterrestrial civilizations. Few people regarded seriously to this claim. However,
there are evidences that Tesla continued his research on “parallel worlds” alone and
silently without publicity of the results. To all appearances, he made a device to tune
electromagnetic oscillations of his own brain, in other words, to control his mental
activity. Thus, he could communicate with realities displaced in time (parallel worlds)
without any problems.
These researches open a new page in the modern science. They show a possibility
to merge material and spiritual aspects in human consciousness (matter and spirit in
nature are already merged). Tesla had an ability to develop both directions of uniform
science. He studied physical basis of mind and mental basis of physics with the
same success. He came to the essential general conclusions that matter consists of
organized parts, which are manifestations of ether in its excited state. One of these
manifestations is electromagnetic oscillation. That’s why resonance law is general
natural law and it’s of time nature, too. A connection between phenomena is provided
by resonance of different kind. Electromagnetism is the basis for these resonances.
Needless to say that from the one hand, if physical reality can be reduced to the
interrelation of electromagnetic fields, then mathematics is a theoretical expression
for these relations. From the other hand, if electromagnetic oscillations interact with
mental plan, which has the same nature, then numbers are some reflections of
organizational structure of electromagnetic fields.
I personally believe that mathematical and physical truth, or rather geometrical and
arithmetical phenomena, should join and become a basis of uniform Cosmology; we
should take into consideration that now we are staying on the threshold of this
Cosmology. Somebody calls it a “New science”, but “Uniform science” is more
appropriate term, because uniform laws make the basis of our Cosmos. In fact,
Uniform Science is the Science of Time.
16
Tesla’s electromagnetic theory was an apt illustration of unification of material and
spiritual origins of world organization. Possibly, he could leave us a religion but he
didn’t want to do it. He knew that God in science needs conscientious followers.
“Mysterious pilgrim” by Mark Twain
A famous writer Samuel Clemens (we know him under the pseudonym Mark Twain)
often visited Tesla’s laboratory at night. Tesla was very close to him and after Twain’s
death he spoke about him as if he was alive. The writer Mark Twain died in 1910,
and his enigmatic novel “Mysterious pilgrim” was published six years later. In this
novel, he told about an angel who left heavens and came to a small Austrian village.
There he met a group of boys and let them into the secret of the universe. If we
recognize little Austrian village as Smilyany and figure of Angel as Tesla, then an
explanation of a very strange theory on human destiny and cosmology will appear.
This theory expressed in this short story made it to be different from other stories of
this writer. Angel tells about the source of all people’s troubles and misfortunes. All it
comes from misunderstanding of true sense of occasionally very small events. Each
of these events defines future links of the next events. As he considered, people’s
free will is an illusion since all is predetermined and will come to a principally
predictable result. That’s why the given human individual psychosomatic structure
has limited number of possible destinies (ranks of events) and a man can switch
back and forth due to the will of higher beings. For example, Angel takes part in the
event, when a woman closes or opens a window, which was predetermined to her. In
addition, the destiny of this woman will go another way depending on her specific
action, and will call a new succession of events. This entirely coincides with Tesla’s
idea of a man as an “automaton of cosmic forces”and it is brought out clearly by
simple dramaturgic tools used by famous writer. Finally, before Angel left his friends,
he let them to the last magic secret, which would be terrible to them, i.e. secret of
Non-existence. He said that all is only a thought. There is nothing existent.... “I am
only a thought, lonely thought, which travels along the empty space of the Universe”.
Mystery of wardenclyffe tower
Let’s visit Tesla’s laboratory in Colorado Springs again, where inventor made his
experiments using electromagnetic field of high frequency. He studied operation of
human brain on himself. He wrote to his fellow Johnson about some intelligent
properties of electromagnetic field. Biophysical principles of neurology were born.
Just after this, in 1901, a construction on Long Island began. The matter concerns a
complex transmitter of electromagnetic waves. Tesla applied all his knowledge to
design it. They are: teleautomatic control, Hertz’s wireless wave transmission, unique
ether theory, according to which any natural element of Mendeleev’s system has its
own gravitational acceleration as well as its own techniques to control the speed of
time course. A new physics was born.
A question appears what concept of the world lies in the basis of experiment with
resonance concentration of magnetic and electromagnetic fields. Let’s return for a
moment to a mystic Monard and his picture of cosmos. Speaking about vibrations, he
underlines the presents of different nations, races and tribes on the planet, but we
cannot meet people, who could live without music and dancing. Even 2500 years ago
17
Pythagoras said to his progeny that stone is a frozen music. Every particle of the
physical Universe has a certain property, which is pitch and pitches of its separate
frequencies, i.e. its melody.
Nature of influence of music on a man is the same as the nature of its influence on
the world of things and events, because vibration is the basis for all. Frequency of
vibrations of subatomic particles is very high and waves in the center of subatomic
nucleus move quicker. Vibrations of all radiant energies (radio waves, heat, light, X-
waves and so on) could be regulated. Electromagnetic spectrum in such
consideration contains more than 80 known octaves and visual light is only a part of
this rank.
Electromagnetic waves as acoustic waves in music have their own harmonious high-
pitch tones and there is some kind of octave principle, i.e. doubling of frequency.
Laws of music and harmony applied to electromagnetism give splendid results.
That’s why Nikola Tesla used the works by Herman Helmholz about sound in his
electrical resonators.
Johan Kepler, an astronomer, who lived in XVII century, believed that every planet of
Solar system is alive and there is a guardian angel on every planet, which listens its
music. Planets “play music” on their circumsolar orbits.
A particular combination of sounds, which we call music, is an expression of relation
between things, in other words, their likeness and difference. It is also a principle of
appearance and disappearance of phenomena as well as the principle, which shows
how new and younger systems form from coordinated harmonious systems. The
inner structure of music is the same as the structure of all the rest.
A Dutch scientist Christian Huyigense in 1665 noticed that pendulums of two clocks
hang on the wall near each other starts to work in rhythm. It is a universal
phenomenon. When two or more oscillators begin to pulse with sufficiently small
difference in time (with small shift in phases) their oscillations come to coincidence
spontaneously. They behave according to the principle of minimum energy since
every separate pendulum requires less quantity of energy with synchronous pulsation
than in the case of arrhythmia. This co-ordination is everywhere, but we rarely notice
it. We can say that all animate things are oscillators, which pulse and change their
rhythms. Even the simplest unicellular organism is in complex oscillatory state. All
motions on subatomic, atomic, molecular, subcellular and cellular levels are
coordinated. In such an organism like a human one it is very difficult and even
impossible to determine corresponding parameters. Our inner rhythms are closely
interconnected and they are coordinated with external world. Physics of a man and
states on his rarified plan (astral) change in one rhythm with the Earth’s movement
around the Sun, with ebbs and flows, change of day and night and with many other
cosmic rhythms. With violation of coordination between these rhythms organism feels
discomfort and even presentiment of near illness.
Our physical body serves as exponent of our inner leading pulse and at the same
time, it is our individual distinction in Cosmos. The so-called “fine body” in essence
has an electromagnetic material base. Live of each of us is characterized by certain
18
rhythmical scheme, which is subjected to physical death and retains an
extracorporeal experience of the spirit, which should be reincarnated.
There is a supposition that the so-called “Shuman waves” takes place in the
telepathic transmission of image and thought. These are waves of 7,8 Hz frequency,
which form a field of standing waves in the space between ionosphere of the Earth
and its surface. It is our natural electromagnetic layer, which can be fully felt at the
seashore or in the forest, though sea and forest absorb other harmful frequencies. It
may occur that a brain enters the state of resonance with some external structure; a
result will be appearance of its image at a distance, i.e. there is a contact made by
means of resonance but not by means of radiation. Since these waves have a big
length (38 000 km), then transmission takes place immediately. Waves with such an
extreme low frequency cannot be screened by usual means. In essence, waves of an
organism often coincide with these waves by phase. However, the problem is that
waves with such low frequencies can transmit quite little information and therefore it
is often impossible to receive a clear picture and give a full description of images of
things.
Modern holistic (integral) approach to understand the Universe has sacral traditions
per se. These traditions were laid in foundation of any religion, which are Judaism,
Islam, Buddhism, Christianity, where we can find a clear statement that every part of
Cosmos includes the whole. It is analogous to the principle of holography. It is
considered that we can make a full hologram of the Universe based on any of its
small parts. Formation of this hologram can take an arbitrary long time. Hologram of
a real man is something different from physical basis of ideal cosmic rhythm.
Consciousness, which is a continual manifestation of rarified substance (astral) of a
man, is shifted by its phase in comparison with genetic material, and conscious will is
only a one of universal instruments of cosmic purposefulness. A “right” man acting in
a “right place” is a man whose intentions are coordinated with cosmic rhythm.
Conscious intention has a big power, and our main choice is to take a responsibility
for its results. So, actually we are made of waves but not of matter, which is called
“solid”. All that we call things and events is a manifestation of acting of these waves.
Every man has its unique cosmic identifier assigned by a certain function of waves,
which represent us. Every man has his own hologram, which contains a universal
information about time. Identifier is a main element of Cosmos; it characterizes an
individual specificity of a subject, who using this identifier can influence on everything
by methods, which even seem to be unusual. We are a peculiar hologram, so
potentially we know all about all.
Secret of Wardenclyffe is deep-hidden, and it is impossible to speak about its real
destination now. Nevertheless, many things show that the object built by Tesla in
Long Island (that time it was a New York suburb) went ahead of all dreams of
modern scientists. It was a translator of electromagnetic wave system, which could
be easily checked. By means of these waves that scientist called earthquakes,
“mental” shifts in people and animals, fired the atmosphere, made impenetrable
energy barriers in ionosphere, controlled time, split and condensed the clouds by
means of corresponding frequency of waves and, finally, he got an inexhaustible
energy from ether using a principle of “ether” technology, which is still unknown for
us. Great Master Tesla demonstrated his experiments to numerous witnesses, but he
19
never announced all results and devoted anybody to his scientific principles. Real
reasons to build this giant electromagnetic and mechanical oscillator were the
motives much more serious than we can imagine.
A report by W. Pickering, professor of Harvard observatory, named as “Alternating
light from Mars”, was published in “New York Times” on January 16, 1901. It may be
shortened like: “Last year in the beginning of December we got a telegram from
Lowell observatory at Arizona. This telegram informed that a strong light flux was
noticed coming from Mars and lasted for 70 minutes. Lowell observatory specializes
on observations of Mars, and observer was an attentive, approved and experienced
man, so we have no doubt in his statements. We will consider these facts
immediately and will notify Europe and America via telegraph. The light came from
the known point on Mars and there is no unusual in this point according to scientific
data. Whatever there was, now we have no means to research anything. We cannot
say with certainty if it is a sign that there is an intellect. For the time present this
phenomenon is inexplicable.”
When this information appeared, Tesla was in New York. He just returned from
Colorado Springs, where he in the course of year made epochal and inexplicable
experiments with electromagnetic field of strange resonance property. (Tesla’s
laboratory in Colorado was situated precisely on the summit of Pike’s Peak. It is
interesting that this peak was deified by Indians Hopi, they consider it a Spiritual Pole
of the World).
Encouraged by the information he got from Lowell observatory, Tesla stated in the
gazette that during his research in Colorado Springs he communicated with Mars
himself. That time he made hints about that he already designed a device available
for interplanetary communication, which will be improved in future. He wrote: “I’ll
never forget the first feeling that I felt when I understood that I have a contact with
something, which will have priceless and immense results for all humankind. Thing
that I noticed, frightened me as if I saw something mysterious and almost
preternatural. Little by little I understood that I am the first who hear messages
sending from one planet to another…”
A respected Professor Holden didn’t consider Tesla’s contacts with extraterrestrial
beings by means of electromagnetism, because he thought it was not a serious case.
Tesla did worked with some extremely long electromagnetic waves of a very high
frequency that does not correspond to the accepted theory, because increase of
wave frequency is always related only with short-wave transmission. However,
Tesla’s waves were different from those discovered by Hertz. They propagated with a
speed, which far exceed the speed of light, better to say that their propagation were
instantaneous. Tesla has his own theory of electromagnetism, which still is not
interpreted. He discovered not only the possibility of wireless transmission of energy
through the Earth and atmosphere without any losses, but also he proved an
unprecedented “breakdown power” of these waves in negotiation of space. There is
an unconfirmed legend that Tesla was the first who sent periodical signals to the
stars. There were coded geometrical theorems like theorems by Tales, Pythagoras,
and an Archimedean formula of harmonic series (we speak about addition of the
series 1+1/2+1/4+1/8+…. Sum of this series is equal to two but number of terms can
be infinite). Three days later Tesla was surprised to get a response. He guessed the
20
principle, which lied in the basis of response code, and got a human face with regular
features. At first he couldn’t understand, if this picture was made by those who sent
this signal and wanted to show that they know our civilization, or they drew their own
image to demonstrate that there are similar beings in Cosmos. If it is true, then it
should be clear that Tesla refused from any open discussion of this discovery
because he couldn’t get a due reaction. But soon something occurred that returned
discussion of this problem in American press.
In 1902, a famous English physicist Lord Kelvin visited America. When spoke to
Tesla, he expressed a full consent and understanding of the fact that details of
Tesla’s “extraterrestrial communication” were not for public discussion. After the
banquet organized in his honor, Lord Kelvin said some good words about New York:
“It is the city with the best illumination in the world and it is the only place on the
Earth, which can be seen from Mars”. In addition, as if in some kind of inspiration he
finally exclaimed “Mars is signaling New York”. This time nobody had objections.
Even persistent Professor Holden kept silence. It was not polite to contradict to such
an old and respected man as Lord Kelvin. Instead of objections an article written by
the writer and publicist Julian Hotorn, Tesla’s associate, appeared as a direct
conclusion from this discussion. He described Tesla’s sensational methods as a
fantasy. Hotorn wrote: “It is evident that people from Mars and other old planets had
been visiting Earth for years and attentively observe the development of our
civilization. Besides, Tesla’s birth changed all. May be, it is possible that people from
the stars control his spiritual and scientific development, isn’t it? Is there anybody
who can know something concrete?”
In the heat of the disputes concerning Martians Tesla was alone in his Tower and
continued to work hard and insensibly on the biggest project of his life, Wardenclyffe
Tower to make radical changes in development of our civilization. These changes
cannot easily be considered true.
Earth - planet as a resonance system
When made a decision to build a relaying station, Tesla at first bought a plot at Long
Island and then asked a famous manufacturer Morgan for help. Morgan was a
member of numerous secret organizations; also, he was a genius of business
organization. He already had cancer and had a hope that Tesla‘s science would help
him to recover. He expected that Tesla somehow would connect him to some energy
sources and would make him to be young and healthy forever. Tesla thought that
Morgan should be a man who would maintain this plan. He considered that a man
has predestination of his life collisions and every man is predisposed to its own
activity.
Negotiations between two old friends were private and hard. There is no clear
information about the time when Tesla decided to begin the construction of Tower
and about expectations of Morgan as an experienced businessman.
During his public appearances, Tesla changed his statements on destination of the
Tower at Long Island twice. At first, he stated that the question is about universal
telegraph and telephone system of wireless energy transmission through the Earth.
Technical properties of Wardenclyffe do not prove neither of them. The truth could be
21
find in his letter to Morgan: „ What I contemplate and what I can certainly accomplish,
Mr. Morgan, is not a simple transmission of messages without wires to great
distances but it is the transformation of the entire Globe into a sentient being, as is
were, which can feel in all its parts and through which thought may be flashed as
through the brain..."
Many authors, especially Tesla‘s biographers, blamed Morgan for reduction of
financial assistance in the moment when Tesla was already on the threshold of very
important discoveries, when it was necessary to finish and start his masterpiece,
Wardenclyffe Tower. Tesla in his autobiography clearly tells us about it. In spite of all
that was said, Morgan fulfilled all his obligations regarding him. “My project was
retarded by laws of nature. The world was not prepared for it. It was too far ahead of
time. But the same laws will prevail in the end and make it a triumphal success."
Tesla tested his transmitter at its full capacity on June 15, 1903. He began his
experiment sharp at midnight. This night New York citizens witnessed the even,
which was outstanding for future science. Glaringly bright strands of electrical plasma
with the length of more then hundreds miles connected the spherical cupola of
Wardenclyffe with the sky. The next day “New York Sun” wrote that people living near
Tesla’s laboratory at Long Island were interested very much in his experiments with
wireless energy transmission. Last nights they were the witnesses of very strange
phenomena, multicolored lightning made by Tesla himself, then inflammation of
atmosphere layers at different altitudes and along the big territory. Night suddenly
turned to day. Sometimes air was full of luminescence concentrated along the edges
of human body, and all people radiated a mysterious shine. They seemed to be
ghosts.
According to the initial Tesla’s plan, five towers, the same as Wardenclyffe, should be
built. The second tower should be constructed in Amsterdam, the third in China and
the fourth and fifth should be built in the North and South Poles. However, this plan
was postponed due to the reasons that should be investigated. Finally, if all this could
be realized, then what would be achieved? The Earth would become a uniform
homogeneous system, which could be controlled by telephone commands destined
for starting of certain oscillators, which produce and transmit electromagnetic waves
of various frequencies. The same electromagnetic system should be completed with
a system for mechanical resonance with the Earth. These systems consisted of a
tunnel passed under the laboratory and filled with water and oil, and hydraulic pumps
served as oscillators. By synchronized actions, based on exact mathematical
calculations both systems could start vibration simultaneously together with rarified
stratosphere, ionosphere and atmosphere as well as with liquid and solid structures
of our planet.
Before conjecturing relating to all possible consequences of such event, we should
give two more examples that are unusual. In his interview of July 17, 1930 given to
“New York Sun” Tesla redoubled his enigma stating that people who live near
Wardenclyffe and were frightened with his experiments could see much more...if
during last two years they were more awake than asleep they could get acquainted
with really incredible things. Sometimes, but not now, “I’ll announce something, which
you cannot find even in fairytales.”
22
After unusual night, when he fired the sky above not only New York but also above
all vast area of Atlantic Ocean during his experiment, Tesla suddenly left his
laboratory without a clear reason and left all things untouched. As we know, he never
crossed the threshold of Wardenclyffe, never visited it and never appeared on this
territory. It was very strange, he didn’t take any calculation, drawing or document,
none paper. It was a turning point in his public scientific work. He was living for 40
years continuously working, but he patented his mechanical discoveries only and
published only the articles in newspapers.
Tesla’s ether technology
Tesla discovered and used the law, which concerned fundamental properties of
Ether, and the law, which structure the initially infinite and homogeneous ether.
Supposition made about continuity of ether as one of the main cosmic mediums
means that imaginary “center” of Cosmos is everywhere, that law of structuring of
such medium should have analogues with the law of location of points at geometric
spheres. There is no information that Tesla formed and told his theory in such a way,
but he left some systems working on the principles, which are unknown to modern
physics. The question is about ether generator, i.e. electromagnetic ball, which has
constant electrical potential in spite of energy leakage, then about a synchronous
motor working on gravitational waves of the planets of Solar system (this motor turns
on independently at the certain season and reacts on the corresponding arrangement
of planets. It also independently turns off, when resonance interval of time ends).
Besides, Tesla designed a metal disk, which could be hang on some height and has
antigravitational properties, which do not depend on attractive force of the given
place.
Parts of the structured ether can be resonant or not. In the first case a condensation
of subatomic particles, such as electrons, protons, neutrons, takes place. These
particles appear by means of resonance synthesis of photons, according to the same
principles as during formation of photons as specific particles of ether.
Asynchronous, non-resonant parts of ether form a space, in which resonating
photons form matter.
Tesla’s Wardenclyffe Tower was a “ Pythagorean” oscillator. Mathematical
description of transmission of particular electromagnetic waves was identical with
Pythagorean creative method. Signs used by Tesla in his equations have a single-
meaning physical interpretation. Principles of Tesla’s ether technologies belong to
the level of cosmic existence, on which it is possible to control space and time. The
principle of resonance and harmonic oscillation of ether seems to be so clear that all
problems of modern physics, especially problems of energy conversion, will be
solved with its development.
By means of his vacuum tube Tesla got protons, electrons and neutrons directly from
physical continuum (ether) and reproduced them at any distance. Instead of giving a
possibility to the bundle of protons to move free through space to some place, he
created conditions for momentary appearance of arbitrary quantity of particles in the
given place. Quantity of protons, neutrons and electrons was not limited by anything,
difference in their quantity was stipulated by created shift in time.
23
Starting from suppositions that Tesla knew some unusual for science and still
inconceivable laws of nature, we should think about what technical goals he followed
using Wardenclyffe Tower and what consequences he expected?
1. To call oscillations of ionosphere. Since the difference of voltage between surface
of the Earth and ionosphere constitutes about two billion volts, then the Tower is
continually oscillating on upper and lower harmonics of oscillations of ionosphere up
to full coincidence with it by phase (up to resonance) and can discharge it in the
same way as usual electrical condensers are discharged. Due to the reason that
such a charge could pass immediately, there would be a real threat to New York. A
high-energy plasma column of a very big diameter (possibly of several hundred
kilometers) would appear from ionosphere, and all situated in this space would be
disintegrated. Of course, Tesla had no intention to destroy New York. He only wanted
to take energy from ionosphere by means of short oscillatory intervals to recharge his
huge oscillator, which required maximum voltage of one hundred million volts. As a
system for hyperfine oscillating, Tesla used a huge quantity of ultraviolet lamps,
placed at the top of his Tower.
2. To take energy from Ether. It is possible to shift time coordinates and produce an
energy transmission by time cycles from the past to the future without any violence of
electromagnetic equilibrium of environment by means of oscillation of non-resonance
electromagnetic fields. Of course, it should be done with strict following of
mathematical law, which determines the interrelations of frequencies with a great
accuracy. In an opposite case, the results can get out of control and an unexpected
destruction of material and biological objects or their momentary drop out form
segments of our reality can take place like in Philadelphia.
3. To open temporary windows in “parallel worlds”. Since parallel worlds have an
electromagnetic structure with the wavelength and frequency of oscillations different
from those of the Earth, then is could be possible to make some connection between
frequencies of oscillations of our world and other worlds by means of complex
harmonic oscillating. Due to this, some pictures of these worlds could become
apparent in our earth conditions (and vice versa).
4. To accelerate human evolution. If we make a permanent high-frequency field
harmonizing with collective electromagnetic field of people, then little by little it will be
possible to achieve an increase in sensibility of perception and increase in ability to
receive ideas. Radiation of these frequencies could be harmful: any disharmony of
field (nonresonance) calls a partial separation of astral and physical substance of a
man, it can lead to sickness (for example, cancer) or mental disorders. Full
separation of one substance from another, of course, leads to death. In addition, all
these processes act slowly. Due to their lack of knowledge, people pollute their
electromagnetic environment more and more by radio waves, microwave radiation
form locators (which call cancer, it was proved experimentally). Other
electromagnetic radiation also has negative impact. These electromagnetic waves
are in disharmony with frequencies of oscillations, which are natural for vital functions
and for informational field of Solar system.
5. To be able to transfer the Earth planet into “parallel realities”. If Tesla could finish
the construction of system made of five transmitters and start it, then he could make
24
the whole Earth to be in the state of oscillating as a uniform resonance structure, and
such oscillation, which is peculiar to some other reality, and thus physically move us
to the “parallel world”. Thus possibly, he wanted to accelerate evolution of civilization.
However, it could be very dangerous, because if the Earth enters the state of
resonance oscillating with “parallel worlds” and it takes a long time, then
catastrophes could occur like that was described in the myth about Atlantis.
Modern experimenters should keep in mind that secret of physical world lies in
metaphysics and as long as our science will be blinded with research of “ crude”
matter, we will be in the state of illusionary split consciousness. It is necessary to
provide a breakdown of human consciousness, and it will happen in physics. We
should free human mind and adjust it to deep cosmological research.
Ethics is a cosmic principle, which contribute to energy distribution, isn’t it? Then it
can get a status of natural law. And we will be able to explain to the supposed
habitants of worlds, which are shifted in time, why we can influence on the Galaxy
and stars by means of special reactors and why we take part in experiments, which
directly change us.
If ethics is really a harmony and kindness is equilibrium of energy, then
mathematical, cosmic ethics certainly acts in the world. It is impossible to violate
mathematical laws. “There is no czar’s way in geometry” – said Euclid to the czar
Edip, who worked on solution of difficult geometrical problem.
Cosmos itself seems to be a big experimenter. Our mind asks it the questions, which
are clever or not. That’s why every true philosopher and scientist should reject the
applied science appeared form defect and rigid theory, when he studies something
concerned with cosmic phenomena.
Evolution of Tesla’s philosophical positions beginning from oracular one and finishing
with engineering ones, beginning from engineering ones and finishing with
metaphysical ones, as Tesla’s private life, these all are the milestones on the way of
formation of a new paradigm of scientific and technical civilization. His attitude to
people and himself is a result of transpersonal absolute manifested in him. He had no
personal attitude to anybody including himself and that’s why he did little mistakes
during his life.
Tesla is often cited in modern science. The scientists, who didn’t notice
contradictions of Maxwell’s electromagnetic theory until now, began to study Tesla,
especially those who work on unification of electromagnetism, gravitation and strong
and weak interactions. Is it true that matter is infinitely divisible or not? If space could
be divided infinitely? Finally, what is the role of time in physical processes? May be
time is only a measure, usual coordinate, as it is supposed in modern physical
theories basing on the theory of relativity and quantum mechanics.
Aversion of Tesla’s ideas about ether as a basic medium, which structurally joins
space and matter, led to stagnation in physical thinking and to continual returning to
out of date ideas. In scientific circles, which take a risk of creation of a “new physics”
Tesla’s concepts now become increasingly valuable and they are studied. There are
experiments with ultra low and ultra high frequencies of oscillations, which have
25
specific modulation and form the radiation of ionosphere. All possible consequences
of it are still unknown. This includes control of meteorological phenomena, especially
hurricanes and atmospheric pressure, infusion of thoughts at a distance by means of
electromagnetism, i.e. resonance with electromagnetic transmitters. It becomes
evident that it is possible in technology to imitate external electromagnetic
manifestations of human thinking. It is the position of Tesla’s cybernetics. “A man is
an “automatic machine” of cosmic forces” – underlined Tesla in his main articles and
lectures.
Experimenters can say that it is much easier to excite mass emotions of people by
means of corresponding oscillation of ionosphere, which includes harmonics of
collective unconscious state of all humankind. Ionosphere is a key to control mass
feelings and thoughts. Tesla understood all this yet in far 1899 living in Colorado.
Modern university science and in particular Serbian scientific community reject
Tesla’s ideas mainly because it cannot understand them. The second reason is the
opposition, which Tesla presented to nuclear physics, and his prediction that
application of corresponding technology would not be continuos and quantum
mechanics has no serious scientific future.
Tesla as cosmologist had his own philosophical and religious position:
Aristotle stated that there is an independent higher spirit in cosmic space -
enteleheia. This spirit sets mater in motion and a thought is his main attribute. In the
same way, Tesla believed that uniform Cosmos is joint in material and spiritual
sense. There is some nucleus in cosmic space, form from which we take all strength,
inspiration, which attracts us forever. Tesla felt its power and its values, which it
sends all around the Universe and keeps it in harmony. He couldn’t guess the secret
of this nucleus but he knew that it exists, and when he wanted to give it some
material attribute, he ascribed that it is LIGHT, and when he tried to understand its
spiritual principle, then it were BEAUTY and sympathy. A man who keeps this religion
in himself, feels strong, works with joy because he feels himself as a part of universal
harmony
Resume on perspectives of Tesla’s science
Not only physicists, who continue Tesla’s work, but all people who think a lot about
scientific problems, are agree that modern physics is really a contradictory system of
knowledge. From the one hand, time is relative and depends on the observer. From
the other hand, it is stated that time of quantum transfer cannot be measured.
Nuclear reactions are studied on cathedras of history of physics. In the course of
these reactions transformation of matter into energy goes without a residue. In
astrophysics, full transformation of matter into energy is not possible. It is known that
mass calculated as an effect of the force of attraction differs from the mass
calculated from the speed of rotation of the stars around the center of Galaxy got by
means of “Doppler’s” shift of lines in spectrums of their radiation. Therefore a
significant defect of visual mater or mass can be found, and it amounts to 90%.
Instead of changing the theory, scientific schools speak about “defects of mass”.
Tesla worked on special “vacuum tube with an open tip”, which serves to transmit
particles at any arbitrary large distances. The laying was made by electrostatic way
26
by the lines of electromagnetic layers of atmosphere, which can be distinguished by
the naked eye. It is the layer, where clouds float. It became known that multiphase
system, inductive motor and generators of alternating current are the less significant
Tesla’s discoveries. The most important should be those, which relate to his
experiments with ether and time. We can underline a perfectly new cosmological
physics, which is based on electromagnetic resonance of ether, on resonance effects
of time.
Main Tesla’s discoveries are the following. The first is transmission of energy at any
distances. Really, it is a superconductivity of natural environments. The second one
is “fireballs” (synthesis of structural elements of ether and matter), high-frequency
resonance oscillator adjusted for waves, which are different from Hertz’s waves,
waves with the so-called longitudinal modulation. It is a kind of free choice of
consciously selecting electromagnetic units, which initially and elementary codify
working electromagnetic field of human brain, modulate brain oscillations or change
their nature, and in sensitive aspect it leads to various emotions, changes in
consciousness, creative impulses, super perception up to super cognition. The third
one is dynamic nature of attraction, in which every element of periodic table has its
own constant of attraction; in this case Tesla continued the works by Etvesh and
derived several universal methods. And finally, Tesla’s electromagnetic theory. This
theory was not explained or published. This theory does not use the generally
accepted notions, such as “energy”, “wavelength”, and «frequency”. Instead of it this
theory introduces the notions of “curve of schedule”, “vibration of spiral systems”,
“electrical pressure”, “proportion of transmission”, “ether”, “dynamics of
electromagnetic fluid”, “geometrical abilities of tube” and so on.
Form modern mathematical arsenal Tesla used only Fourier’s ranges to separate
electromagnetic oscillations into higher and lower harmonics, since it matched his
main supposition on simultaneity of action of all parts of infinite ether. It is clear that
infinity cannot be formed with nonsimultaneous parts.
Tesla’s cosmology is cosmology of a general type, which relates to isotropic and
infinite Universe. At the same time, Maxwell’s electromagnetism can be applied at
comparably small distances. In essence, Maxwell made a mathematization of
Faraday’s experiments, but he didn’t build a concept of this problem up to an end.
Due to the incompleteness of Maxwell’s theory, great difficulties in Special theory of
relativity appeared (interrelation of speed of propagation of energy and speed of
light). Einstein himself ignored relativist changes of space and time with motion in
photoeffect, since if energy changes together with speed, then there are no effect,
when energy equivalent of electron trajectory split out by photon is absent. In general
theory of relativity shortcomings of Maxwell’s theory led to an idea of “world line” (in
essence, it is a pancosmic extrapolation of magnetic force lines, which are visualized
by iron filings on laboratory tables) an, finally, to the notion of Cosmos finiteness,
which alternately shrinks up to the “point”, which is located out of measurements, or
explodes...unlikely development.
It could be surprising not only for Tesla, but also for many antique philosophers and
scientists, Pythagoras, Plato, Euclid and others.
27
Nikola Tesla and his science are very significant for the modern world of
telecommunicational systems and find a way out of crisis of scientific and technical
civilization, which needs philosophical ontology. During hundreds and thousands
years, we had many great scientists, but nobody has a temple built in his honor.
Such temple is built in California, in San Diego, in the one of centers of world
scientific and technical power. Neither Plank, Einstein, Bor, Pauli, Torichelli nor
Newton in spite of their interest in alchemy, theology and mystics, none of them could
convince people of transcendental significance of their scientific views.
Christian civilization is based on suffering, sacrifice and atonement of Christ, on the
mystery of christening, resurrection and the other world. It is full of human feelings
and emotions. Technical epoch under the badge of Tesla is a humane symbol of
spirit and matter unity and establishes not a religious belief, but belief in scientific
principles, and gives a discernment in fundamental laws of Cosmos. Historically,
Tesla radically changes the form of religious belief on the planetary level. That’s why
he is not only a scientist but also a universal and historical phenomenon of a higher
level. He changed spirituality of theology to the spirituality of science. Besides,
modern physics already became a philosophy of new times, since it openly works
with the structure of mater, genesis of Cosmos and, recently, Ethics.
Quantum mechanics of Copenhagen circle including Bor, Heisenberg and Pauli does
not give an answer on the question about structure of main unit of matter. Theory of
relativity doesn’t solve the problem of time substantiality and doesn’t explain the
essence of force concept. Tesla’s physics relating to the real physical space or ether,
and his scientific thought derived from positions of antique cosmology and
Pythagorean mathematics (not from electromagnetism of XX century) couldn’t be
continued as long as appeared other limits on the way of creation of general physical
theory, which includes events of physical reality. After Chernobyl all people
understood that nuclear reaction is nothing more than irresponsibility without real
understanding of matter structure. And tragedy of spaceship Challenger reminds us
that humankind still does not have enough experience in long space travels and jet
engines cannot solve the problem. It is better not to speak about medical aspects of
interstellar travels. Tesla’s physics gives answers and instruments to use it in
cosmology.
Sometimes expressions that we use to denote some physical notion didn’t exist in
times of Tesla. The same is with the method of introduction of mathematical symbols
to make calculations. It gives a great benefit to a young electrical engineer, who
many a time heard that Julius Mayer never used the word “energy”; that Archimedes
and Galileo calculated all by mathematical method but had no signs for calculations,
which can be used now; Newton, who opened infinitesimal quantities, nevertheless
made all proofs by means of geometrical symbols as well as Euclid and all other
scientists lived in period between them.
To understand Tesla it is necessary not only to read his works in original, but also to
explain meaning of terms in his scientific account, not to mention the coded part of
his archive, where the same notion is used in different contexts has a lot of senses.
Tesla’s theory cannot be understood without a clear hypothesis and method of
thinking, which is similar to his own.
28
Advanced modern science gradually begins to study Tesla’s heritage. We do not
speak about commercial or university aspects of scientific knowledge, but about
summits of scientific thought unknown to wide intellectual community, about the
knobs of separated net of worldwide global informational space for humankind, in
which everybody is connected with the others by the channels of planetary
telecommunicational net. This connection is made by two main coincident
parameters, conformity of ideas and intellectual level. However, the thing that joins all
is a time comprehension as a basis for new civilization. All early civilizations originate
only from their attitude to space.
According to Tesla, in planetary community of the future all energy will be taken from
inexhaustible and free sources. He pointed out that the Earth is a nucleus of a huge
generator, which in rotation creates a difference of potentials equal to billions volts
with a slowed ionosphere, that humankind really lives in a spherical condenser of big
capacity, which continuously self-charges and self-discharges. In this condenser
ionosphere is a phase, atmosphere is a dielectric and the Earth is zero. Thus, a
global electrical process proceeds on our planet. Electrical energy does its work and
then return to the natural environment of the planet Earth.
There are linear “accelerators” by Tesla in the form of open vacuum tubes, i.e. tubes
working in room temperature without energy losses, since while laying at “target”,
electrostatic properties of the “target” itself are used; that’s why it is possible to
transmit any quantity of energy at any distance by means of induction. Kenneth
Corum, who repeated Tesla’s experiment in America and achieved some results, still
didn’t understand the essence. Tesla’s “particles” do not travel in space as other
known particles or Hertz’s waves, but they are self-generating from inductive field like
“fire balls”. The question is about an original Tesla’s theory, which is related with
cosmic radiation and was proved by him experimentally.
Tesla’s reversible magnetic field has a universal significance. It is a mathematical
idea, which is realized directly in every echelon of cosmic being.
I make bold to state that even Tesla’s inductive motor, the so-called asynchronous
motor, is not studied enough in conceptual sense. There is an undiscovered mystery
of heavenly bodies rotation and rotation in general. Acceleration of motion of “Tesla’s
egg” is based on the change of field’s geometry, but not on the properties of
magnetic induction (actio in distans) or increasing of force (electricity input is
permanent).
Among other Tesla’s mysteries there are unstudied ones: in radio engineering there
are some transmissions on the same frequency, which cannot be jammed (Twenty
unused patents); in the structure of matter (“I used to split the atoms, without
releasing any energy” – it is Tesla’s statement of 1933); concerning attraction force
there is a model of gravitational motor with tin engine and glass stator working once a
year under the influence of certain planet arrangement; in the theory of ether (matter
is structured from ether and dissolves in ether again following simple mathematical
laws, but if generated energy is more than disappeared one, then cosmic
catastrophes take place); Tesla’s medical devices and influence of low-frequency
waves on the brain operation, which calls contractile motions and change of
subjective “second”.
29
This is Tesla’s attitude to the idea of Buddha that “I” is illusionary. “Really, we are
some different, like waves in subjective time and space, and when these waves
disappear, nothing remains from us. There is no personality. We cannot saw that
waves in the ocean have individuality. There is only an illusionary sequence of
waves, which go one after another. We are not the same that was yesterday; I am
only a sequence of relatively existences, which are not similar. This sequence is that
thing, which create an effect of continuity, but not my subjective and mistaken
understanding of my real life.”
I cannot imagine Tesla smiling. I see him to be sad, since I see what a man could
draw, when he gave all his essence to the power of natural laws.
Most important dates of Nikola Tesla’s life
1856 – on July 10, at the midnight Nikola Tesla was born in Smilyan, in Lika
(province of Austrian monarchy) in the family of Serbian priest.
1875-1878 – he studied in Polytechnic Institute in Graze (Austro-Hungary).
1882 – in Budapest, have been walking around the park, Tesla made a discovery
relating to the reversible magnetic field.
1883 – in Strasbourg he was employed in Edison’s Continental Company and built a
model of the first inductive motor.
1884 – he left for New York and began to work in Edison’s laboratory.
1885 – he left Edison, established his own company and started to produce motors
and generators of multiphase alternating current.
1888 – on May 16 he read a lecture in American institute of electrical engineers on
the topic “New system of motors and transformers of alternating current”.
1890 – he announced his results on physiological influence of high-frequency
electricity.
1891 – he read lectures on the topic “Experiments with alternating current of very
high frequency and its application in artificial wireless lighting”; registered patents of
“spark oscillator with resonance transformer”.
1892 – he came to London and read lectures in Royal scientific society on the topic
“Light and other high-frequency phenomena”, in the institute of electrical engineers
he read lectures on the topic “Experiments with alternating current of high voltage
and high frequency”; then the same lectures he read in Paris.
1893 – attracted public attention on the World Exhibition in Chicago. He skipped a
high-frequency current through his body and demonstrated a model of reversible
magnetic field, the so-called “Tesla’s rotating iron egg”.
1895 – on May 13 Tesla’s laboratory in New York was burnt with fire.
30
1897 – he registered twelve patents in radio engineering.
1898 – registration of the paten for teleautomatic control (experiment with the ship on
the lake in New York, Central Park. Tesla made a wireless control of the ship and
staggered all witnesses).
1899 – a construction of hydroelectric power station at Niagara was finished.
1899-1900 – experiments in Colorado Springs.
1901-1905 – construction of Wardenclyffe Tower at Long Island, near New York.
1909-1922 – he registered patents only in mechanical engineering (pumps,
tachometers, bladeless turbines).
1943 – on January 7 Tesla died in New York, in “New Yorker” hotel. At first, he was
read the burial service according to Orthodox tradition, and then his body was burnt
according to Buddhist ceremony. My question is if he was truly burnt.... Or
transfigured and conveyed...not as mere ashes... His main unexplored scientific
legacy is in Tesla Museum in Belgrade City, Yugoslavia.
31